- Lots of journals accept code papers, as long as it used by people studying the relevant subject matter.
	- *Journal of Virological Methods* might like it.
		- Low impact factor.
	- *Bioinformatics* requires more rigor for the code.
- "Quasi-species problem" means the computer can't figure out how to assemble viral genomes.
	- Some incorrect data can't automatically be thrown out, meaning... it can't assemble the genome.
	- Maybe some kind of probabilistic tree?
	- "These fifteen things are all *basically* the same thing," and Cale's program assembles them.
		- Cale's program looks for the *highest* probability path and assembles those into a completed genome.
		- If there's a mutation, it doesn't work.
		- Even without mutation, it won't assemble the whole virus.
- What are [Trinity](https://github.com/trinityrnaseq/trinityrnaseq/wiki), [SPAdes](https://github.com/ablab/spades), [Velvet](https://github.com/dzerbino/velvet), *et cetera*?
	- These use [SRA files](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sra/docs/submitformats/).
	- "You're still gonna end up with reads that don't assemble."
	- "Velvet: algorithms for de novo short read assembly using de Bruijn graphs."
	- "Why did I not get one contig for the whole thing?"
- Program needs to be able to handle mutations, variants, et cetera.
	- Choosing most common variant is the classical approach.
	- Code needs to keep track of probabilities.
	- "Rank stats" are used for... something?
	- Probabilistic approaches can result in incorrect assemblies.
		- If you allow *too many* variants, some middle regions might be ignored, some subsequences might be put in the wrong place, *et cetera*.
		- "There must be this much overlap before we accept a read."
		- Overlap of 18 is currently standard.
		- "Eighteen-primer design theory."
		- Maybe start with longest reads, then lower the threshold more and more, using mutation probabilities to determine the best overlap.
			- Long sequences might be a fluke, so maybe start with medium.
- Normally, Dr. Martin uses Cale's highest probability assembly as the consensus sequence.
	- Then Dr. Martin maps all the minor reads to this consensus sequence.
	- They'd like a program that can do that automatically.
- Keep notes on how the logic works.
	- Need some test data sets.
- Cale will send me one data set.
	- Someone else will send me six.
- "What's the tolerance rate per, like, twenty base pairs?"
	- Each virus may have a different mutation rate.
	- If we don't have a complete consensus sequence, we can't figure out what the mutation rate is.
- Numbers in genomes are "ranges."
	- Actual sequences are "contigs."
- Action steps:
	1. James gets data.
		1. Annotation table.
		2. Raw file.
		3. Something else?
	2. Rewrite in Python?
		1. Move back to C++ if needed for performance.
		2. Biologists like Python because it's easy to write in.
- Code can theoretically take as long as we want.
	- Cale needs to decide if he's staying here over summer.
- Are we just trying to refine overlaps or define a table?
- If Excel spits out a table that says it has 25 viruses, you probably only actually have a few viruses, but Excel can't immediately tell which viruses are actually... the same?
	- The column that produces the range isn't the same one that tells you where the annotation is.
	- You can't ignore the annotation when you're just looking at the range.
	- Annotation first, then range is what Martin likes?
- The goal is to not throw out things/annotations you actually want.
	- Right now we're not considering the range at all.
	- What's more relevant is "these are all virus X, these are all virus Y."
	- Why didn't I get an 80-225 from Trinity, even when there's a lot of obvious overlap?
	- New isolate vs. same virus that is mutating?
		- Based on rate of divergence?
	- Trinity doesn't know what virus X is, that's only gonna come after your BLAST search? So why did Trinity throw out an overlap?
			- They do a filtering step to remove smaller contigs because they don't want to something that was misassembled.
- If we can streamline finding viruses in virome data, that would be good.
	- You *might* have a full virus, you just didn't assemble it.
	- "Cross-BLASTing" can be useful for... something?