- Aasma just converts to Excel. But then Excel doesn't accept conversion?
	- Never let Excel handle the conversion on its own.
	- Don't let Excel delete anything (it will).
- Excel puts all the data in one giant column.
- Dr. Martin used a Python script to split them back into 26 columns with headers.
- Cale's Excel plugin extracts keywords to a smaller file.
	- "virus"
	- "phage"
	- "viridae"
	- "virion"
	- ...other viral terms
	- Dr. Martin wants these prioritized -- "virus" first, all in one file, then other viral keywords in another file, then rows that mention nothing to do with viruses in another file.
- The extracted Excel keyword files are then fed into Cale's C++ program.
	- I still need to get that from Cale, apparently it isn't in the Box folder yet.
	- One file his program takes is a raw contig, the other is a FASTA file (?).
	- Cale's program does assembly, which Dr. Martin's script doesn't do.
- The 1000+ data set hasn't been processed yet.
	- Need to download a program called Tabular?
	- Or at least understand the `.tabular` format.
- The FASTA files go into Trinity?
	- I think we start with a FASTA, then we get a `.tabular`, which is converted into a `.xls`/CSV, which is then assembled by Cale's program.
	- Actually, the *FASTA* file goes into Cale's program.
		- The FASTA and an `.xlsx` (contig) file.
		- No, you take a FASTA file, then copy a *column* from an `.xlsx` contig into a text file, and *those* are the two inputs to Cale's program.
			- Column #25 (column Y?) is the important one.
			- It's the last column with any data in it.
- Dr. Martin's Python program does the same thing as Cale's Excel extension.
	- Filters out samples which only have certain keywords in their names.
- Make sure the program asks the user which column to use.
	- Can you do that in Excel?
	- Can definitely do it in Python.
	- Convert column names to column index (relies on having a header row).